.\" Sorry for my English 
.\" --Dmitry Yu Okunev <dyokunev@ut.mephi.ru> 0x8E30679C
.\"
.TH pam_ns 8 "OCTOBER 2015" Linux "Linux-PAM Manual"
.SH NAME
pam_ns \- an unshare()/setns() PAM module
.SH SYNOPSIS
session optional
.B pam_ns.so
<session|user|group> <...>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pam_ns.so
is a PAM module, that calls
.BR unshare (2)
with specified argument.

The first argument defines the strategy. Possible values:
.RS
.B session
.RS
Just call
.BR unshare (2)
on every new session.
.RE
.B user
.RS
Call
.BR unshare (2)
on creating the first user session. If the session is not the first then connect
to namespaces of an already existing session using
.BR setns (2).
.RE
.B group
.RS
Call
.BR unshare (2)
on creating the first session of any user of the group. If the session is not the first then connect
to namespaces of an already existing session using
.BR setns (2).
.RE
.RE

.B Warning!
Modes
.BR user " and " group
uses semaphores
.BR "" ( sem_overview (7))
to prevent race conditions and requires for the module to be installed to "/lib/security/pam_ns.so" to work properly due to a hack with
.BR ftok (3)
in it's code.

The search of an appropriate process (to get namespaces to attach to) is performed by scanning /proc (see 
.BR proc (5)).
The "/proc" should be mounted to get this plugin work properly.

.SH OPTIONS
Possible options are:
.RS
CLONE_NEWIPC
.br
CLONE_NEWNET
.br
CLONE_NEWNS
.br
CLONE_NEWPID
.br
CLONE_NEWUSER
.br
CLONE_NEWUTS
.RE
.br
 
.br
For details read
.BR unshare (2).

.SH EXAMPLES
session optional pam_ns.so user CLONE_NEWIPC CLONE_NEWNS

.SH AUTHOR
Dmitry Yu Okunev <dyokunev@ut.mephi.ru> 0x8E30679C
.SH SUPPORT
You can get support on IRC-channel in Freenode "#clsync" or on
github's issue tracking system of
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR unshare (2),
.BR setns (2),
.BR pam (3),
.BR proc (5),
.BR sem_overview (7)
.BR ftok (3)

